docs/service_specs/normalization.md, before:

﻿[← Back Home](../README.md)

## Normalization Overview

FHIR resources queried from EHR endpoints can vary from location to location. There will be occasions where data for specific resources may need to be adjusted to ensure that Link Cloud properly evaluates a patient against dQM’s. The Normalization service is a component in Link Cloud to help make those adjustments in an automated way. The service operates in between the resource acquisition and evaluation steps to ensure that the tenant data is in a readied state for measure evaluation.

- **Technology**: .NET Core
- **Image Name**: link-normalization
- **Port**: 8080
- **Database**: MSSQL (previously Mongo)
- **Scale**: 0-3

## Environment Variables

| Name                                        | Value                         | Secret? |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------|
| Link__Audit__ExternalConfigurationSource    | AzureAppConfiguration         | No      |
| ConnectionStrings__AzureAppConfiguration    | `<AzureAppConfigEndpoint>`    | Yes     |

## App Settings

### Kafka Connection

| Name                                     | Value                     | Secret? |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------|
| KafkaConnection__BootstrapServers__0     | `<KafkaBootstrapServer>`  | No      |
| KafkaConnection__GroupId                 | normalization-events      | No      |
| KafkaConnection__ClientId                | normalization-events      | No      |

### Database Settings (MSSQL)

| Name                                  | Value                         | Secret?  |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------|----------|
| ConnectionStrings__DatabaseConnection | `<DatabaseConnectionString>`  | Yes      |

## Kafka Events/Topics

### Consumed Events

- **PatientDataAcquired**

### Produced Events

- **PatientNormalized**
- **NotificationRequested**

## API Operations

The **Normalization** service provides REST endpoints for managing normalization configurations for each tenant. These configurations dictate how FHIR resources are normalized upon acquisition.

- **POST /api/Normalization**: Create a new normalization configuration for a tenant.
- **GET /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Retrieve the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.
- **PUT /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Update the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.
- **DELETE /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Delete the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.

Each operation enables tenants to customize the normalization process to meet their specific requirements, ensuring data consistency and compliance across workflows.

Commit message:

Add common configuration documentation for CSharp and Java. Adding service spec for validation. Updating all service specs to reference common configurations. Removing unused property from `MongoConnection.cs`. Changing default value of measureeval's `authentication.anonymous` property to `false` for security purposes.

docs/service_specs/normalization.md, after:

﻿[← Back Home](../README.md)

## Normalization Overview

FHIR resources queried from EHR endpoints can vary from location to location. There will be occasions where data for specific resources may need to be adjusted to ensure that Link Cloud properly evaluates a patient against dQM’s. The Normalization service is a component in Link Cloud to help make those adjustments in an automated way. The service operates in between the resource acquisition and evaluation steps to ensure that the tenant data is in a readied state for measure evaluation.

- **Technology**: .NET Core
- **Image Name**: link-normalization
- **Port**: 8080
- **Database**: MSSQL
- **Scale**: 0-3

See [Normalization Functionality](../functionality/normalization.md) for more information on the role of the Normalization service in the Link Cloud ecosystem.

## Common Configurations

* [Swagger](../config/csharp.md#swagger)
* [Azure App Configuration](../config/csharp.md#azure-app-config-environment-variables)
* [Kafka Configuration](../config/csharp.md#kafka)
* [Kafka Consumer Retry Configuration](../config/csharp.md#kafka-consumer-settings)
* [Service Registry Configuration](../config/csharp.md#service-registry)
* [CORS Configuration](../config/csharp.md#cors)
* [Token Service Configuration](../config/csharp.md#token-service-settings)
* [Service Authentication](../config/csharp.md#service-authentication)
* [SQL Server Database Configuration](../config/csharp.md#sql-server-database)

## Kafka Events/Topics

### Consumed Events

- **PatientDataAcquired**

### Produced Events

- **PatientNormalized**
- **NotificationRequested**

## API Operations

The **Normalization** service provides REST endpoints for managing normalization configurations for each tenant. These configurations dictate how FHIR resources are normalized upon acquisition.

- **POST /api/Normalization**: Create a new normalization configuration for a tenant.
- **GET /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Retrieve the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.
- **PUT /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Update the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.
- **DELETE /api/Normalization/{facilityId}**: Delete the normalization configuration for a specific tenant by `facilityId`.

Each operation enables tenants to customize the normalization process to meet their specific requirements, ensuring data consistency and compliance across workflows.
