docs/service_specs/report.md, before:

﻿[← Back Home](../README.md)

## Report

### Overview

- **Technology**: .NET Core
- **Image Name**: link-report
- **Port**: 8080
- **Database**: MSSQL (previously Mongo)

### Environment Variables

| Name                                        | Value                         | Secret? |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------|
| Link__Audit__ExternalConfigurationSource    | AzureAppConfiguration         | No      |
| ConnectionStrings__AzureAppConfiguration    | `<AzureAppConfigEndpoint>`    | Yes     |
| KafkaConnection:BootstrapServers:0          | `<KafkaBootstrapServer>`      | No      |
| KafkaConnection:GroupId                     | report-events                 | No      |
| KafkaConnection:ClientId                    | report-events                 | No      |
| MongoDB:ConnectionString                    | `<ConnectionString>`          | Yes     |
| MongoDB:DatabaseName                        | `<DatabaseName>`              | No      |
| MongoDB:CollectionName                      | report                        | No      |
| TenantApiSettings:TenantServiceBaseEndpoint | `<TenantApiUrl>/api`          | No      |

### Consumed Events

- **ReportScheduled**
- **MeasureEvaluated**
- **PatientsToQuery**
- **ReportSubmitted**

### Produced Events

- **SubmitReport**
- **DataAcquisitionRequested**
- **NotificationRequested**

Commit message:

Moving documentation from README.md at the root to their equivalent service in docs/service_specs.

docs/service_specs/report.md, after:

﻿[← Back Home](../README.md)

## Report Overview

The Report service is responsible for persisting the Measure Reports and FHIR resources that the Measure Eval service generates after evaluating a patient against a measure. When a tenant's reporting period end date has been met, the Report Service performs various workflows to determine if all of the patient MeasureReports are accounted for that period prior to initiating the submission process.

- **Technology**: .NET Core
- **Image Name**: link-report
- **Port**: 8080
- **Database**: MSSQL (previously Mongo)

## Environment Variables

| Name                                        | Value                         | Secret? |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------|
| Link__Audit__ExternalConfigurationSource    | AzureAppConfiguration         | No      |
| ConnectionStrings__AzureAppConfiguration    | `<AzureAppConfigEndpoint>`    | Yes     |
| KafkaConnection:BootstrapServers:0          | `<KafkaBootstrapServer>`      | No      |
| KafkaConnection:GroupId                     | report-events                 | No      |
| KafkaConnection:ClientId                    | report-events                 | No      |
| MongoDB:ConnectionString                    | `<ConnectionString>`          | Yes     |
| MongoDB:DatabaseName                        | `<DatabaseName>`              | No      |
| MongoDB:CollectionName                      | report                        | No      |
| TenantApiSettings:TenantServiceBaseEndpoint | `<TenantApiUrl>/api`          | No      |

## Consumed Events

- **ReportScheduled**
- **MeasureEvaluated**
- **PatientsToQuery**
- **ReportSubmitted**

## Produced Events

- **SubmitReport**
- **DataAcquisitionRequested**
- **NotificationRequested**
