docs/domains/Compliance/services/AccountService/index.mdx, before:

---

id: AccountService
name: Account Service
version: 0.2.0

summary: |
  Service that contains Account related information and functionality

owners:
  - arch_team

sends:
  - id: AuditableEventOccurred

specifications:
  openapiPath: openapi.yml

badges:
  - content: ".NET"
    backgroundColor: yellow
    textColor: black
  - content: MSSQL
    backgroundColor: red
    textColor: white
  - content: '8060:8080'
    backgroundColor: gray
    textColor: white

---

## Overview

The Account service is responsible for maintaining roles and permissions for Link Cloud users.

## Nodes

<NodeGraph />

- **Image Name**: link-account

## Common Configurations

* [Swagger](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#swagger)
* [Azure App Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#azure-app-config-environment-variables)
* [Kafka Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#kafka)
* [Service Registry Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#service-registry)
* [CORS Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#cors)
* [Token Service Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#token-service-settings)
* [Service Authentication](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#service-authentication)
* [SQL Server Database Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#sql-server-database)

Commit message:

Updating documentation for Account service and AdminBFF, especially related to Redis Caching.

docs/domains/Compliance/services/AccountService/index.mdx, after:

---

id: AccountService
name: Account Service
version: 0.2.0

summary: |
  Service that contains Account related information and functionality

owners:
  - arch_team

sends:
  - id: AuditableEventOccurred

specifications:
  openapiPath: openapi.yml

badges:
  - content: ".NET"
    backgroundColor: yellow
    textColor: black
  - content: MSSQL
    backgroundColor: red
    textColor: white
  - content: '8060:8080'
    backgroundColor: gray
    textColor: white

---

## Overview

The Account service is responsible for maintaining roles and permissions for Link Cloud users.

## Configuration

| Property        | Type    | Description                                                                                      |
|-----------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Redis:Enabled` | boolean | If enabled, Redis will be used to cache account information associated with authenticated users. |

## Nodes

<NodeGraph />

- **Image Name**: link-account

## Common Configurations

* [Swagger](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#swagger)
* [Azure App Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#azure-app-config-environment-variables)
* [Kafka Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#kafka)
* [Service Registry Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#service-registry)
* [CORS Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#cors)
* [Token Service Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#token-service-settings)
* [Service Authentication](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#service-authentication)
* [SQL Server Database Configuration](/docs/custom/config/dotnet#sql-server-database)
