docs/services/AdminUI/index.mdx, before:

---

id: AdminUI
name: Admin UI (front-end)
version: 0.2.0

summary: The administrative front-end UI service

owners:
  - arch_tea

badges:
  - content: "Angular"
    backgroundColor: yellow
    textColor: black
  - content: '8066:80'
    backgroundColor: gray
    textColor: white

---

## Overview

* **Tenant Configuration & Management**: Administrators can configure and manage tenant-level settings, including operational parameters, identifiers, and environment-specific options—enabling scalable multi-tenant deployments.
* **User Management**: Allows for full lifecycle management of users within each tenant context, including user creation, role assignment, account activation/deactivation, and permission updates.
* **Integration Testing Support**: Offers tools to initiate and track integration tests, enabling administrators to validate service connectivity and workflow correctness within tenant environments.
* **Viewing Report Metadata**: Users can browse report records, view detailed metadata (e.g. status, timestamps, versions), and audit submission history within the system.
* **Report Downloading**: Enables secure download of generated report packages for manual delivery, archival, or verification—retrieved via AdminBFF endpoints.

## Volumes

| Volume                        | Mount Path                                           | Sub-path                |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Azure Storage Account         | `/usr/share/nginx/html/assets/app.config.local.json` | `app.config.local.json` |

## Configuration

An `app.config.local.json` file is used to configure the Admin UI service at deployment time, overriding the defaults in `app.config.json`.

```json
{
  "baseApiUrl": "<ADMIN-BFF-BASE-URL>/api",
  "authRequired": true,
  "oauth2": {
    "enabled": true,
    "issuer": "...",
    "clientId": "...",
    "scope": "openid profile email",
    "responseType": "code"
  }
}
```

This configuration file can be customized at deployment time and mounted in the `/assets` folder, or it can be overridden by ENV variables in a docker deployment.

### Authentication

The Admin UI supports authentication using:

* OAuth2 via an identity provider (e.g., Azure AD, Keycloak), enabling secure login with centralized identity and access management.
* Token Generation via AdminBFF /api/login, which provides session tokens for downstream API access when deployed in a simplified or standalone context.

## Environment Variables

| **ENV variable**          | **JSON Property**     | **Description**                                                | **Default Value**      | **Required**      |
|---------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------|
| LINK_BASE_API_URL         | `baseApiUrl`          | The base URL for the Admin BFF API.                            | `http://localhost`     | Yes               |
| LINK_AUTH_REQUIRED        | `authRequired`        | Indicates whether authentication is required for the Admin UI. | `true`                 | Yes               |
| LINK_OAUTH2_ENABLED       | `oauth2.enabled`      | Indicates whether OAuth2 authentication is enabled.            | `false`                | Yes               |
| LINK_OAUTH2_ISSUER        | `oauth2.issuer`       | The issuer URL for the OAuth2 provider.                        | `null`                 | If oauth2 enabled |
| LINK_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID     | `oauth2.clientId`     | The client ID for the OAuth2 application.                      | `null`                 | If oauth2 enabled |
| LINK_OAUTH2_SCOPE         | `oauth2.scope`        | The scope for the OAuth2 application.                          | `openid profile email` | If oauth2 enabled |
| LINK_OAUTH2_RESPONSE_TYPE | `oauth2.responseType` | The response type for the OAuth2 application.                  | `code`                 | If oauth2 enabled |

Commit message:

DOCS: Add KAFKA_URL and GRAFANA_URL environment variables to AdminUI docs (#1255)
Add KAFKA_URL and GRAFANA_URL environment variables to docs

docs/services/AdminUI/index.mdx, after:

---

id: AdminUI
name: Admin UI (front-end)
version: 0.2.0

summary: The administrative front-end UI service

owners:
  - arch_tea

badges:
  - content: "Angular"
    backgroundColor: yellow
    textColor: black
  - content: '8066:80'
    backgroundColor: gray
    textColor: white

---

## Overview

* **Tenant Configuration & Management**: Administrators can configure and manage tenant-level settings, including operational parameters, identifiers, and environment-specific options—enabling scalable multi-tenant deployments.
* **User Management**: Allows for full lifecycle management of users within each tenant context, including user creation, role assignment, account activation/deactivation, and permission updates.
* **Integration Testing Support**: Offers tools to initiate and track integration tests, enabling administrators to validate service connectivity and workflow correctness within tenant environments.
* **Viewing Report Metadata**: Users can browse report records, view detailed metadata (e.g. status, timestamps, versions), and audit submission history within the system.
* **Report Downloading**: Enables secure download of generated report packages for manual delivery, archival, or verification—retrieved via AdminBFF endpoints.

## Volumes

| Volume                        | Mount Path                                           | Sub-path                |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Azure Storage Account         | `/usr/share/nginx/html/assets/app.config.local.json` | `app.config.local.json` |

## Configuration

An `app.config.local.json` file is used to configure the Admin UI service at deployment time, overriding the defaults in `app.config.json`.

```json
{
  "baseApiUrl": "<ADMIN-BFF-BASE-URL>/api",
  "authRequired": true,
  "oauth2": {
    "enabled": true,
    "issuer": "...",
    "clientId": "...",
    "scope": "openid profile email",
    "responseType": "code"
  }
}
```

This configuration file can be customized at deployment time and mounted in the `/assets` folder, or it can be overridden by ENV variables in a docker deployment.

### Authentication

The Admin UI supports authentication using:

* OAuth2 via an identity provider (e.g., Azure AD, Keycloak), enabling secure login with centralized identity and access management.
* Token Generation via AdminBFF /api/login, which provides session tokens for downstream API access when deployed in a simplified or standalone context.

## Environment Variables

| **ENV variable**          | **JSON Property**     | **Description**                                                | **Default Value**      | **Required**             |
|---------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|--------------------------|
| LINK_BASE_API_URL         | `baseApiUrl`          | The base URL for the Admin BFF API.                            | `http://localhost`     | Yes                      |
| LINK_AUTH_REQUIRED        | `authRequired`        | Indicates whether authentication is required for the Admin UI. | `true`                 | Yes                      |
| LINK_OAUTH2_ENABLED       | `oauth2.enabled`      | Indicates whether OAuth2 authentication is enabled.            | `false`                | Yes                      |
| LINK_OAUTH2_ISSUER        | `oauth2.issuer`       | The issuer URL for the OAuth2 provider.                        | `null`                 | If oauth2 enabled        |
| LINK_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID     | `oauth2.clientId`     | The client ID for the OAuth2 application.                      | `null`                 | If oauth2 enabled        |
| LINK_OAUTH2_SCOPE         | `oauth2.scope`        | The scope for the OAuth2 application.                          | `openid profile email` | If oauth2 enabled        |
| LINK_OAUTH2_RESPONSE_TYPE | `oauth2.responseType` | The response type for the OAuth2 application.                  | `code`                 | If oauth2 enabled        |
| GRAFANA_URL               | `grafanaUrl`          | URL for the Grafana UI.                                        | `http://localhost:3000`| Yes                      |
| KAFKA_URL                 | `kafkaUrl`            | URL for the Kafka UI.                                          | `http://localhost:9095`| If Kafka UI is available |
