docs/domains/Report/index.mdx, before:

---

id: Report
name: Report
version: 0.2.0

summary: Report related information and function

owners:
  - arch_team

services:
  - id: MeasureEvalService
  - id: NormalizationService
  - id: QueryDispatchService
  - id: ReportService
  - id: SubmissionService

---

## Overview

The Report domain encompasses the full lifecycle of data extraction, transformation, evaluation, and delivery for reporting workflows. It orchestrates the flow of raw clinical data into structured, validated, and submitted quality reports. Each service plays a specialized role in enabling modularity, traceability, and performance at scale.

## Diagrams

### State

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
state "Report Scheduled" as ReportScheduled
state "Data Acquisition Requested" as DataAcquisitionRequested
state "Patient IDs Acquired" as PatientIDsAcquired
state "Resource Evaluated" as ResourceEvaluated
state "Validation Complete" as ValidationComplete
state "Report Submitted" as ReportSubmitted
state "Report Generation Failed" as ReportGenerationFailed
state "Submission Failed" as SubmissionFailed

ReportScheduled --> DataAcquisitionRequested : GenerateReportValue
DataAcquisitionRequested --> PatientIDsAcquired : PatientIdsAcquiredValue
PatientIDsAcquired --> ResourceEvaluated : ResourceEvaluatedValue (for each patient)
ResourceEvaluated --> ValidationComplete : ReadyForValidationValue
ValidationComplete --> ReportSubmitted : ReportSubmittedValue

DataAcquisitionRequested --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
PatientIDsAcquired --> RelsportGenerationFailed : Error
ResourceEvaluated --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
ValidationComplete --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
ReportSubmitted --> SubmissionFailed : Error

ReportGenerationFailed --> ReportScheduled : Retry (GenerateReport)
SubmissionFailed --> ReportSubmitted : Retry (SubmitReport)

state "Initial" as Initial
Initial --> ReportScheduled : Report Scheduled
```

Commit message:

TECH_DEBT: Adding more definition to Report domain (#1012)
* Adding more definition to Report domain

* Attempting to allow the docker-build-and-run job of the workflow to run ONLY if docs have NOT changed.

* Instructing checkout to fetch history

* Forgot endif in bash script

* Adding a "code cahnge" to test that "skip_if_only_docs" works correctly. Plan to remove this change if it does.

* Including `steps.changes.outputs.only_docs` in `skip_if_only_docs` job.

* Workflow is skipping smoketest on docs changes correctly, now. Removing the "code change".

docs/domains/Report/index.mdx, after:

---

id: Report
name: Report
version: 0.2.0

summary: Report related information and function

owners:
  - arch_team

services:
  - id: MeasureEvalService
  - id: NormalizationService
  - id: QueryDispatchService
  - id: ReportService
  - id: SubmissionService

---

## Overview

The Report domain encompasses the full lifecycle of data extraction, transformation, evaluation, and delivery for 
reporting workflows. It orchestrates the flow of raw clinical data into structured, validated, and submitted quality 
reports. Each service plays a specialized role in enabling modularity, traceability, and performance at scale.

## Definitions

| Concept                 | Description                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Report                  | The output of Link's evaluation of data. A report can be submitted to NHSN, it can be evaluated in Power BI, it can be visualized in a custom UI. |
| Evaluation              | The process of doing something with data within Link (i.e. acquire, normalize, check criteria, submit).                                           |
| Reporting Requirement   | A description of the need for data in a report. (i.e. "Bed capacity reporting during a pandemic" or "Hypoglycemic patients")                      |                                                                                                                                        |
| Reporting Orchestration | Indicates the steps to take within the Link system to produce reportable data.                                                                    |

## Stakeholder Requirements

* Reporting functionality SHALL be modular so that it can be used for multiple use cases
* Link acquires (either via PUSH or PULL) and evaluates the data in a reporting pipeline.
* Reporting pipelines SHALL be orchestrated via configuration of services

## Functional Requirements

TODO

## Diagrams

### State

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
state "Report Scheduled" as ReportScheduled
state "Data Acquisition Requested" as DataAcquisitionRequested
state "Patient IDs Acquired" as PatientIDsAcquired
state "Resource Evaluated" as ResourceEvaluated
state "Validation Complete" as ValidationComplete
state "Report Submitted" as ReportSubmitted
state "Report Generation Failed" as ReportGenerationFailed
state "Submission Failed" as SubmissionFailed

ReportScheduled --> DataAcquisitionRequested : GenerateReportValue
DataAcquisitionRequested --> PatientIDsAcquired : PatientIdsAcquiredValue
PatientIDsAcquired --> ResourceEvaluated : ResourceEvaluatedValue (for each patient)
ResourceEvaluated --> ValidationComplete : ReadyForValidationValue
ValidationComplete --> ReportSubmitted : ReportSubmittedValue

DataAcquisitionRequested --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
PatientIDsAcquired --> RelsportGenerationFailed : Error
ResourceEvaluated --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
ValidationComplete --> ReportGenerationFailed : Error
ReportSubmitted --> SubmissionFailed : Error

ReportGenerationFailed --> ReportScheduled : Retry (GenerateReport)
SubmissionFailed --> ReportSubmitted : Retry (SubmitReport)

state "Initial" as Initial
Initial --> ReportScheduled : Report Scheduled
```
